what is up guys karma medic here and I
am done exams I'm done with second year
of King's College London medicine I
don't get up out of breath I'd really
sake night out yesterday on guys bar I
ended up meeting quite a few of you guys
I think I met like 10 11 or 12 of you
who watched my videos so shout out to
all of you and thanks for coming up to
me and saying hi and yeah it's just the
best feeling in the world I'm done with
exams and I have summer ahead of me so
it's currently the day after the exam
and what I wanted to do before I head
off to Canada and just have a bunch of
other things in my schedule is I wanted
to sort of sit down and reflect a little
bit about my time at King's College
London during my second year of medical
school sort of reflect on the year talk
about what it was like all the different
things that I did and maybe I can give
you guys some insight into what it's
like to be on medical school and maybe
you're interested in you apply to
medicine if you want to check out my
videos you can et cetera etc so second
year at King's College London is when
you have the transition from lecture
based learning to clinical learnings so
you're in hospital placement and on the
GP talking to real actual patients and
of course that's something that we
didn't do in first year first year was
very lecture heavy it was very Theory
focused and now we were actually gonna
go out there and talk to patients and
stuff like that now although I knew I
was gonna be speaking to patients a lot
throughout this year at the very very
beginning I was so so nervous and the
reason for that is because you kind of
just get thrown into the hospital and
people expect you to show up and do
things and know things and it's kind of
scary when you're doing it for the first
time on top of that you're gonna be
speaking to real humans and you can't
just sort of slip up and say something
really stupid and then be like oh sorry
I take it back
you know this isn't like a written exam
or a mistake on a multiple-choice test
you know once you've said the words
they're out there and there's a real
human sitting in front of you so below -
this year was trying to figure out sort
of how to talk to patients and maintain
that good level of interpersonal tea and
social skill while also taking all the
information that you need from the
patient in order to try and help come up
with clinical diagnosis and management
plans appropriately so yeah I think
about it you've basically been sitting
in a lecture hall for a whole year just
sitting down listening to professor's
talk taking notes
your laptop your iPad or whatever and
now you're gonna be thrown into the
hospital with other doctors surgeons
nurses physiotherapists everything
everybody is there and you know they
don't expect that much from you but you
need to be there you need to show up
another big change for the second year
is that a lot of the learning becomes
driven by you you have to show up a
hospital but nobody really checks that
you're there nobody checks what you're
doing throughout your day so a lot of
the learning comes down to you you have
to say I want to go see this I want to
follow X person around and I want to
cover a B and C skills nobody's going to
tell you that you have to learn how to
insert a catheter on this day or you
need to learn how to recognize the
sounds of different heart murmurs on
that day you have to go and you have to
see what patients are available and
tailor your learning to what is around
you and that is kind of a difficult
skill to get used to you know it takes a
lot of internal motivation a lot of self
Drive to say I'm gonna wake up at 6:00
a.m. I'm gonna make a one-and-a-half
hour trek to the hospital and then once
I'm there I'm gonna make sure I take
every single opportunity I can to learn
so Hospital placement and GP has been
absolutely some of the best times I've
ever had at university in the hospital I
think now I've been to something like
four eight twelve sixteen different
wards so I've seen a whole range of
different specialties of medicine I'm
going to talk to patients that are
really young that are middle aged that
are very old patients who are healthy
and just have a little bit of a problem
and other patients that are in the
intensive care unit or high dependency
unit and you know are sort of at the end
of their lives I feel like I've learned
so much medicine in this one year of
course there's still three more years to
go and I have a lot a lot to learn but I
feel like I'm well on my way and it's
just it's just great okay so GP was
actually really really cool you guys
signed to a general practice with a
couple of other students and depending
on who your GP is and how they want to
teach you you do different things so I
got quite lucky and my GP was fantastic
she actually in a sit in the chair of
the doctor and take the history fully
from the patients that came in she was
sitting behind us into the side so she
could step in if of course we said
anything that was incorrect or when it
came to the point where we needed to do
like prescription and treatment
obviously we can't do that as medical
students so my GP honestly was so great
she
us take on the leading role and she
really threw us in the deep end so to
speak we really were forced to just sort
of take the history extract as much
information as we could and try and come
up with a clinical diagnosis and maybe a
management plan as well so the GP was
definitely some of my best experience
you know I would say in the doctor's
chair I would call in a patient that I
knew pretty much nothing about except
for having a small read through their
notes before they came in and then you
know they would sit there tell me their
problem and that would be it you'd have
to start from there ask so many
different questions to try and piece
together the story to try and understand
what's going on so that's honestly the
biggest thing that I learned this year
is how to take a history from a patient
how to ask them questions in an
open-ended manner that allowed them to
open up to you and tell you things in
their own words so that you're not
leading them down a closed path you know
what let me take you guys to the couch
what do we think about it's that cool
view we've already gone our placements
for next year for our student selected
component so you know how this year I
was doing a project on HIV vaccine
development and we basically had to do
like a bunch of lectures on that and
then write an essay and make a
presentation I actually have this
included in one of my vlogs I'll leave a
link to it in the description down below
next year I now know that I'm gonna be
doing a project on nasogastric tubes in
children oh my god how how could I
forget we had our first set of Oscars
this year as well all skis are objective
structured clinical exams they are
basically clinical scenarios or clinical
skills that you have to do to prove that
you have certain competencies as a
student doctor but what this will
involve is like a respiratory exam or an
abdominal exam cardiac exam you know
where you have to observe a patient you
have to feel them in their peripheries
you have to take your stethoscope listen
to their chest or their abdomen or cus
let's see if I can get a good one for
you guys
can you guys hear that so you need to
perk us on the person's chest or abdomen
to look for different signs look for
different abnormalities and just ask the
right questions and you know try and
figure out what is going on with the
patient in front of you we also have
things like how to take certain
histories so for example a gynecological
history or a conversation about you know
how to stop smoking or how to lose
weight things like that these are all
types of things that come up in our
house keys
about to plug another video guys you
guys want to learn a little bit more
about the Oscars I talked about it in
one of my vlogs links in the description
or on screen or whatever anyway so my
first ever off skis this year you know
it was kind of it was kind of scary I'm
not gonna lie like it's kind of like an
MMI interview except you have to do a
lot of physical practical activities as
well you know you have to talk to real
patients and there's an examiner in the
room and they're sort of looking at
everything that you do marking things
down so it's quite like high-intensity
high-stress situation but it's something
that we're gonna have to do every single
year and so it's something that I just
need to get used to and get better as
time goes on thankfully I actually did
really really well on my Oscars I'm
really really happy I did a lot of
practice with Kenzie and Georgina
you know practical practice actually
talking out loud actually doing the
exams and going through the motions
going through the physical steps that
you need to do to do well on these
stations and yeah it was a really good
experience and I hope to keep it up for
next year as well so besides the
clinical aspects of second year Kings we
did continue to have lectures throughout
the year and those were always on a
Monday and usually on say we had
lectures from something like nine till
twelve ten until one dental two
something like that the lectures were
significantly less this year than they
were in first year a lot of the lectures
were focused on clinical diseases
clinical presentations treatments
management plans etc so it kind of all
really felt like this information was
gonna be directly relevant to me on the
wards to me in the hospital and that's
something that I was really happy about
in first year there was still a lot of
like biochemistry metabolism pathways
you know just things to memorize that
you don't really need to know as a
doctor these are all the like very
specific they're not exactly perfectly
relevant to clinical medicine so it was
great to see that the lectures this year
focused a lot more on the clinical
aspect we had lectures on a Monday
Hospital on Tuesday Wednesday was
supposed to be reserved for anatomy and
I was really excited about this because
I wanted to continue cadaveric
dissection it's one of the things I
enjoyed most last year and I talked
about that in my review of first year of
medical school at Kings I'll leave a
link to it somewhere up there and yes I
was really looking forward to continuing
dissection this
and we actually didn't really get
started on dissection until the second
semester so after December and it was
really sparse we did dissections I think
once every two or three weeks don't
quote me on that but it was
significantly more sparse than last week
than last year last year we had
dissection I think almost once a week
which is kind of a bummer I really
wanted to continue the learning of
Anatomy through cadaveric dissection but
instead I had to resort to using my
computer a bunch of 3d models and stuff
and I also got flashcards nethers and
not to me flashcards that I've shown you
know I think I'm gonna stop linking
videos now you can find anything you
want in the description down below so
that's lectures that's nice sections we
still had tutorials and workshops and
things like that but again significantly
less than last year now all of this free
time that we've had during second year
I've used very very productively and
that's one of the reasons that I was
able to produce so many YouTube videos
this year and something that I'm very
grateful for so I could spend some time
on passion projects that I have outside
of medical school that free time also
allowed me to play basketball every
single week it allowed me to go on runs
go to the gym hang out with friends you
know do all of my social activities and
everything that I need to do outside of
medical school to make sure that I'm
still motivated I'm not burnt out by
medical school and I still have the
energy to work and strive for good
grades and learning in medical school
there was enough time in my life in
second year at Medical School for me to
do everything that I wanted and that
includes academics as well I was still
studying every single day doing lectures
doing tutorials doing workshops you know
that work still needs to be done so for
me how I worked throughout the year is
that I do a little bit of work every
single day so that when it comes to exam
time I don't have everything piling up
on me and I have the whole world
crashing down where I have something
like 100 lectures to learn in a month or
whatever and usually what that turned
out to be was something like two to
three hours of work a day to catch up on
lectures tutorials workshops and not to
me student cyclic component projects
whatever it was another big change with
second year was that we started doing
progress tests so progress tests our
single best answer in multiple-choice
tests that have a lot of material that
you've never seen before
for example when we did our first
progress test we had studied 12.5% of
the
on that test when we did the second
progress test we had studied 25% and
then by the time we were up progress
that's three we had covered 50% of the
examinable material so next year when we
learned the next 12.5 the next well
point five the next 12.5 we're gonna
eventually know more and more knowledge
to be able to answer questions on these
tests and this is supposed to be a good
method of learning to sort of get
students to think outside the box think
ahead do a little bit of future studying
looking ahead into some topics that
you're gonna learn next year so the
progress tests in themselves were quite
an interesting experience you know it's
it's really weird when you write a test
and you've only studied 10 or 12.5
percent of the material that's on it
there is so much guessing so much trying
to figure out what's going on even
though you don't know and some of the
questions you know they just have a
bunch of words I've never heard before
I've never seen before and so I just
have to guess those entirely and then
there's other questions where you kind
of know some of the things you don't
know other things and you can try and
figure out and reason your way into
coming to a good answer so I guess
that's all part of the learning process
but it's definitely a weird feeling so
that took a little bit of getting used
to
I think our pass marks for the first to
progress tests were 43 marks out of 100
and then 47 or something like that again
don't quote me on that and then of
course those get scaled up so yeah it's
a little bit weird to get used to the
fact that you're scoring like 50 55 60
65 % on these tests it's a little bit
different than high school where you are
able to score a hundred percent 95
percent 98 percent whatever thankfully
throughout this year I've still been
able to maintain a great social life
while at medical school you know I've
gone out with my friends every single
week for dinners for board game nights
for going on the weekends I've played
sports every week on to the gym run
seeing friends at uni you know there's
still plenty of time to do social
activities and extracurriculars I've
been making YouTube videos from this
whole year almost every single week I
think every single week actually I might
have missed one week maybe two
throughout the year for exams and stuff
alright so I think I've been rambling on
for a really really long time now so in
conclusion the biggest things that I
learned during my second year of medical
school at King's College London so first
and foremost I think I've learned how to
take a good history the second big thing
that I think I learned to do is just how
to deal through or be
exposed to really difficult
conversations and difficult situations
with patience you know when I first
started the clinics I just for some
reason thought you know every patient
was gonna be middle-aged healthy happy
to talk to me really just like fun and
chill and of course that's not the case
you know you get patients of all
different age ranges all different
levels of niceness and social
interactivity and of course all
different sub varieties of things that's
going on with their own health and in
their lives so it was a big adjustment
to sort of realize what is going on with
others and how I need to listen to what
they're saying understand their
situation and what they're saying and
then use my medical knowledge to try and
figure out what might be best for them
both really really great things I'm very
thankful for the experiences that I've
had and I hope to continue to learn with
similar experiences in the future so
yeah guys second year has been quite a
ride honestly so much clinical focus so
much clinical exposure in the hospitals
and the GPS and auskey exams progress
tests there has really been a lot of
changes since first year you know first
year is like somewhere over here and
then second year you just take a big big
big jump honestly it's really cool I
think I think it's awesome
and I'm just really excited to start
third year of medical school you know
it's basically around the corner I'm
basically a third-year medical student
knock on wood not gonna fail I just
cannot wait to see what it brings I
cannot wait to start and yeah I'm just
really excited anyways I have rambled on
for way too long you're still watching
the video at this point you are a legend
if you guys enjoyed this video don't
forget to leave a like on it subscribe
to my channel if you want to see more
content from me and yeah I will see you
guys in Toronto I will see you in the
next video peace